https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/6337256

Add or remove propertiesYou can have up to 1,000 properties in your Search Console account.
Who can add or remove a property:
Property owners can add or remove themselves or others.
Users can only add or remove themselves.
Add a property
Anyone who can verify ownership of a property can become a verified owner. Read more about the different permission levels.
Add a new property
To add a new property that you've never accessed before:
See Add a website
Re-add a formerly accessed property
If you were granted access by another user, you can re-add a property as long as any verified owner exists for the property (not necessarily the one who granted you access before). If you are a verified owner, and your verification token is still valid, you can re-add the property to your list.
If you removed the property yourself without unverifying yourself
Click Add property in the property list dropdown on the menu bar and add information about the property. Your access will be regranted automatically.
If someone else removed your access, or you unverified yourself
Either:
Ask an existing owner to grant you access
or
Verify ownership
Remove a property
Removing a property has the following effects:
You will no longer see the property in your property list.
You will no longer receive messages for the property.
You will not be able to see any information about the property or access the property settings.
Your message history for the property will be retained.
To remove a property from your account
You can either mute or permanently remove a property from your account:
If you mute a property, you can re-add the property yourself, and verification will automatically succeed at your previous access level (as long as at least one verified owner remains for the property).
If you permanently remove a property, you will need to re-verify ownership (or be added by someone else) if you want access to the property again.
To mute a property
In the Settings page, click Remove property.
To permanently remove a property
If you are a verified owner, you must remove the access token you used to verify ownership. So, for example, if you used HTML tag verification, you must remove your tag from the site homepage; if you used domain verification, you must remove your TXT verification entry from the domain host.
In the Settings page, click Remove property.
To remove a property from someone else's account
Removing a property from someone else's account has the following rules and effects:
A verified owner can remove access for any delegated owner or user.
A delegated owner can remove access for any non-owner.
Removing a property from someone else's account deletes their access to the property.
In order to regain access, the removed user must be re-granted access by an owner, or else verify themselves as described in Verification.
The removed user's verification history for the property will be deleted after 18 months.
To remove the property from someone else's account:
If they are an owner: Follow the instructions for removing owners. Be sure to follow the instructions for either delegated or verified owners, as appropriate.
If they are not an owner: Follow the instructions for removing users.
Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit
true
Get your site on Search ConsoleAdd a website propertyRemove a property from your listVerify your site ownershipManaging owners, users, and permissionsI don't recognize this new owner
New to Search Console? Never used Search Console before? Start here, whether you're a complete beginner, an SEO expert, or a website developer.