https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/prototype

Home
Google Search Central
Send feedback
Build, Test, and Release Your Structured Data
Google recommends becoming a
verified site owner
of your site in Search Console. Search
Console provides many useful debugging and monitoring
reports and tools to test rendering, availability, and structured data indexing.
Create new pages
Try
our new Structured Data Codelab. This codelab walks you through adding several types of
structured data to a simple HTML site, including where to place structured data on a site
and how to validate it.
Here is our recommended process for creating new structured data pages:
Follow the structured data guidelines for your page and
feature type. For example, if your page is a recipe, be sure to follow the
guidelines for Recipes.
Validate your code using the Rich Results Test. Paste your code into the tool and click Test code.
Tip:
For some result types, the Rich Results Test lets you generate a sample view of a
result from your data. For those types, after you click Test code in the tool, if
the code is valid
you will see a "Preview results" button, which will generate a sample
search result display based on your data.
Deploy a few pages using your structured data and use the
URL Inspection tool to test
how Google sees the page. If you have both a mobile and desktop version of your pages, add
structured data to both. Be sure that your page is accessible to Google and not blocked by
robots, the noindex tag, or login requirements. If the page looks okay, use that tool to request an
index of the page. Read here to find out how
to test a page hosted on a local server or behind a firewall.
After Google has indexed the page, look for errors and properly processed data using the applicable
Rich result status reports.
Ideally you should see an increase of rich results or structured data types
and no increase in error rates.
If you see your structured data being crawled without errors, update your sitemap to have Google crawl
those pages regularly.
If you find problems in your structured data, fix it, retest on URL Inspection, and request another
index until everything looks good in the reports. Then deploy the rest of your pages.
Monitor your error rates periodically using the applicable
Rich result status reports, especially after releasing new templates or updating your code.
Fix existing pages
Sign up as a verified site
owner of your site in Search Console. If
Search Console notices any dramatic changes in error rates, you might be notified by email
about the change.
Periodically monitor your pages using the applicable
Rich result status
reports. Here are some common reasons for errors:
If you see an increase in errors, perhaps you rolled out a new
template that doesn't work, or your site interacts with the existing template in
a new and bad way.
If you see a total decrease in structured data, check whether the
sudden decrease in indexed structured data is matched by an
increase in errors. If not, perhaps you are
no longer embedding structured data in your pages, or the pages are inaccessible to
Google (perhaps pages are blocked by robots.txt or the noindex tag). Test page
availability using the
URL Inspection tool.
Don't use cached links to debug your pages. Instead, use the URL Inspection Tool because it has the most up-to-date version of your pages.
You can retest a specific page using the Rich Results Test.
Fix your code and test it using the Rich Results Test. Read here to find out how
to test a page hosted on a local server or behind a firewall.
Roll out your fix and wait for Google to recrawl your page. Remember that this can take a few days.
Allow time for re-crawling and re-indexing! Remember that it
takes several days after publishing a page for Google to find and crawl it.
Fix pages with manual actions
If you have a structured data manual action against your page,
the structured data on the page
will be ignored (although the page can still appear in Google Search results).
Verified site owners in Search
Console receive an email message when their site is affected by a manual action. You can
open the Manual Actions page in
Search Console to see any manual actions affecting your site.
If you are not a
verified site owner in Search Console, you will not be
able to check if your site has manual actions.
To diagnose and fix your code:
Open the Manual Actions page for your site.
Expand the Site-wide matches and Partial
matches sections, if they are collapsed, and look for any structured data issues.
Determine which pages and which rich result types are affected.
For
partial matches (actions that affect only part of your site), you should see the URLs
of some example pages that are non-compliant.
For issues that affect the entire site, you won't see URLs for example pages, so you
will have to do some detective work to determine the cause of the failure. Look into
recent changes in your templates as a clue to what changed recently and might be
triggering the action.
Read all the guidelines (very carefully!) for each rich result
type affected by the action to find which guideline you are not compliant with:
General technical
guidelines for all result types
General quality
guidelines for all result types
Guidelines for your specific rich result type (for example,
Event,
Review snippet,
or Job Posting)
Take a look at Common structured data errors below. The problem
can be caused by either spammy content or spammy markup usage. However, the issue may not
be a syntax issue, and so a markup validator won't be able to identify these issues.
Fix the issue and republish your pages.
Submit a reconsideration
request in the Manual Actions report for each specific manual action. Do not
submit a reconsideration request unless you think the issue is fixed; filing multiple
reconsideration requests on unfixed content can negatively affect the page review time.
Wait for the results of the request, which can take several days
(more than 3). You will get either a confirmation that you fixed the issue, or a notice that
the problem was not fixed.
Common structured data errors
Here are some common causes of structured data manual actions.
Affected types
Description
All items
The information in the structured data is not shown in the user-visible text. For
example, review stars are in the structured data but not on the page. This would cause the
stars to appear only in search results, but not on the page. This often occurs with product
or review rich results.
Relevant guidelines:
The marked-up content is hidden
from the user.
Markup should not be used to hide
content not visible to users in any form, since it might create a misleading or deceptive
search experience. For example, if the JSON-LD markup describes a performer, the HTML
body should describe that same performer.
Make sure the
reviews and ratings you mark up are readily available to users from the marked-up page.
Event
A page is using event markup but there is no visible event content on the page.
The visible text or description in markup is more concerned with promoting/selling the event than
describing what it is.
Relevant guidelines:
Avoid marking non-events as events: Don’t
promote non-event products or services such as "Trip package: San Diego/LA, 7 nights" as events.
Don’t add short-term discounts or
purchase opportunities, such as: "Concert — buy your tickets now," or
"Concert - 50% off until Saturday".
Job
Job markup used, but no job related content on the page
No way to apply for the job
Job markup doesn't match the user-visible job description
Payment required to apply, or the job seems to be fake
Misleading job documentation
Relevant guidelines:
Job Posting guidelines
List items
Don't treat a list of items (of any type) as a single item when assigning item properties.
For example, do not assign a single review rating or location to a list of items; instead you should apply
individual attributes to each item in the list. Don't treat lists of
"summer dresses" or "cake recipes" as a single items.
Relevant guidelines:
Marking up just one category entity
from all listed on the page is against our guidelines.
Provide review
and/or rating information about a specific item, not about a category or a list of
items. For example, "summer dresses" or
"cake recipes" are not specific items.
Use markup for a specific product, not a
category or list of products. For example, "shoes in our shop" is not a
specific product.
Use recipe property markup for a single
recipe, not a category of recipes or a list of recipes. For example, "10 apple pie
recipes" is not a single recipe.
Product
The name of the product must be 1) The name of the product itself, not the name of the
manufacturing or selling company, and 2) A real product name, not a description. Examples of
invalid product names: "Android Phones", " "Nexus Phones,"
or "Top-Selling Nexus Phones". Example of a valid product name: "Nexus 5X".
Relevant guidelines:
Use markup for a specific product, not a
category or list of products. For example, "shoes in our shop" is not a
specific product.
Product, Review
A review is written by the site or person providing the product or service, rather than a customer or independent,
unpaid reviewer.
Relevant guidelines:
Snippets must not
be written or provided by the business or content provider unless they are genuine,
independent, and unpaid editorial reviews.
Product, Review
Reviews are shown on the page without a mechanism for
readers to submit their own reviews. Exception: A page can offer
a single review without a mechanism to submit reviews when it is clearly
indicated who the author is (and
the reviewer cannot be the one making the
product). For example, an art dealer can offer a review of the Mona Lisa for sale on his
website; however, Leonardo DaVinci could not offer a review of the Mona Lisa for sale on his
own website (even if he provided a mechanism for users to submit other reviews).
Relevant guidelines:
Make sure the
reviews and ratings you mark up are readily available to users from the marked-up page.
Review
The review rating assigned is the average of all items on the page or
list, rather than the value for that specific item. Review ratings must be targeted to a single item.
Relevant guidelines:
Provide review
and/or rating information about a specific item, not about a category
or a list of items. For example, "summer dresses"
or "cake recipes" are not specific items. See also our structured data
guidelines for multiple entities on the same page.
Recipe
A page using recipe markup isn't about recipes.
Relevant guidelines:
Recipe guidelines.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2021-01-27 UTC.