https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/2753285

Create a page set that contains a single pageThe steps for creating a page set with just one page are different from creating a page set with multiple pages.
You can create a page set with just one page if, for example, all of your events or products are described on one page.
Create a page set that contains a single page:
On the Search Console home page, click a verified site.
On the Dashboard, click Search Appearance.
Click Data Highlighter.
Identify the page:
Click Start Highlighting.
Enter the page's URL. For example, enter www.example.com/events/details/101112.html
Data Highlighter requires all pages in a page set to be in the same domain as the verified site. For example, if on the Webmaster Tools home page you clicked the www.example.com site, then Data Highlighter requires the URL to start with www.example.com.
Select a type of data to extract from the page.
Click Tag just this page.
Click OK.
Teach Data Highlighter how the page displays data by tagging information:
On the Tagger page, use the mouse to select an image or piece of text.
From the pop-up menu that displays after you make your selection, click the type of data that you selected. For example, click Name.
Continue selecting and clicking the type for all required data and any optional data that is available.
Helpful hints.
Under My Data Items, required displays next
to each required data item that you have not yet tagged. If the page is missing any required data,
you can add the missing data.
If you apply a consistent pattern of two or more tags of the same type, Data Highlighter will
automatically tag other similar items on the page. For example, if you tag a date twice and a
name twice, Data Highlighter will automatically tag the other dates and names on the page.
If you tag an event name that also happens to be a hypertext link, Data Highlighter automatically uses
the link's URL for the event. See Data Highlighter - Events for
a description of event URLs.
If date and time information is split into pieces (for example, the year displays at the top of
the page while the month and day display in the middle of the page), you can tag the individual pieces.
See Tagging Dates.
If rating information is split into pieces (for example, the actual rating is in the middle of the page
while the best possible rating is in a footer), you can tag the individual pieces.
See Tagging ratings.
Confirm the tagging by viewing the data in the My Data Items column. If the alert icon () displays, click the data next to the icon. For example, if Boston displays, click Boston. Then review the tagging and do one of the following:
If the tagging is incorrect, click the X next to the data. Then re-tag the data.
If the tagging is correct, click the alert icon itself () and select Clear warning.
Click Done.
Data Highlighter automatically publishes the page. The next time Google crawls the page, the structured data in your page set will display on the structured data page. It might take some time for the data to appear as rich snippets, in the Google Knowledge Graph, or in other Google products. If rich snippets aren't appearing for your site, see possible reasons why.
Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit
true
Create a page setCreate a page set that contains a single pageCreate a page set that contains multiple pagesTagging datesTagging ratingsReview Data Highlighter's understanding of your page setAdd missing data
New to Search Console? Never used Search Console before? Start here, whether you're a complete beginner, an SEO expert, or a website developer.