https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/9476993

Home
Google Search Central
Help
Send feedback
European press publisher FAQ
Google helps people find relevant and diverse content, and helps publishers reach readers.
Google analyzes hundreds of billions of web pages and presents relevant search results to
our users, who are then able to access the information they seek on sites like yours.
In order to help people understand why Google has selected the search results it displays,
Google presents short previews of the content from the linked web pages—most commonly,
short text extracts, or snippets, and thumbnail images. Experiments
have shown that these previews help people quickly find the site that has the content they
are looking for. However, in the wake of new copyright law in France, Google will change
the way it presents search results for European press publications to people in that
country. Specifically, Google will no longer present snippets and thumbnail images in
France for these publications unless publishers displaying content in France have specified
how much of this content they want to show in search results.
This article brings together questions about these new limitations, specifically for
publishers of these websites.
Which publishers are affected by the new copyright law?
We had to make an initial assessment without any specific guidelines to follow as
the law
does not list which publications are affected. So, we have included any European
journalistic operation that's currently part of Google News. We didn't include sites
that are not primarily journalistic operations, such as but not limited to academic
journals, personal blogs or content from sports teams. Any publication that wasn't
initially included can easily self-include themselves; any publication that wishes
to opt-out can also use self-serve tools to do that using
Google
Search Console. Similarly, a publisher can
remove
its property from the list if it feels that the publication has been included in error.
Is my website affected?
Google provides information about the status of your website as an affected
European press publication in Google
Search Console, with a special setting that shows the current status.
My website is incorrectly designated. How can I let you know?
Google provides information about the status of your website as an affected
European press publication in Google
Search Console, with a special setting that shows the current status. Verified
owners in Search Console are able to change the site's status. Find out more about
verifying
ownership. If you are unsure who has verified ownership of your website, you
must verify the website first (there can be multiple owners), and then review the
list of verified owners in Search Console. Other verified owners will be notified of
changes in this setting.
My site was incorrectly set, I changed it. How long until this
is reflected in Search?
The status for an affected European press publication is reprocessed within a few
days. These changes are effective across the whole website and do not require
recrawling or reprocessing of individual URLs.
What is the effect of this designation?
Because of changes in copyright
law in France, Google Search will not display text snippets or image thumbnails
for affected European press publications in France, unless the website has
implemented meta tags to permit search previews.
How can I show a longer or shorter snippet for my pages?
Any publisher or website in the world, regardless of the designation as an
affected European press publication, is able to control snippets for their websites
using multiple methods. Publishers can remove snippets altogether, set the maximum
length of snippets for their pages or the maximum size of thumbnails for their images,
or to hide parts of a page from snippets. You can find out more in our
developer documentation for robots meta
tags. These require recrawling and reprocessing of your site's pages in order to
be effective.
How do I optimize the length of my preview?
Google tries to select previews that are long enough to help users identify the
page they're looking for while preserving the user's desire to visit that page.
However, publishers can set their own limits on the amount of preview content that
Google displays by implementing robots meta tags. Individual sites and different
business verticals may discover that more or less preview content is optimal for
attracting users to their sites. Additionally, in France, European press publishers
must set a maximum snippet length in meta robots tags before their previews can
include any snippet at all.
How can I prevent certain parts of my content from being
included in snippets?
Any publisher or website in the world, regardless of the designation as an
affected European press publication, is able to set snippet thresholds for their
websites using an HTML attribute on their pages. This allows publishers to disallow
snippet selection from parts of a page. You can find out more in our
developer documentation for robots meta
tags. These changes require recrawling and reprocessing of a site's pages in
order to be effective.
How can I have my pages reprocessed & updated quickly?
Changing meta tags or HTML attributes to set snippet limits is a significant
change in how a page can be presented by search engines. The best way to notify us of
such a change is to use XML
sitemap files. Specify the date of the last significant change of each URL as the
last modification date (lastmod) in the XML file. You can use
"HTTP ping"
method to signal that the sitemap file has been updated and is ready for
processing. Note that the speed of reprocessing depends on many factors, including the
crawl budget for
the website.
Are there ways to provide the meta tag without per-page reprocessing?
No. Pages must be reprocessed individually in order to be updated in our search results.
Can I use different snippet settings across my site's pages?
Yes. These settings are made on a per-page basis and do not need to be the same
across the whole website.
Will these snippet changes affect my site's position / ranking in search?
No change to how we evaluate page relevance is being made alongside the new markup,
but some Search features, such as Featured Snippets, depend on the availability of
preview content. (It would be very hard to feature a snippet if the snippet itself
is not provided!) Other Search features may try to group together search results with
limited previews in order to optimize the space on the search results page. Outside
of those user interface limitations, our search ranking algorithms will not take into
account how much of your content is available for previewing. But users might; bear
in mind that different amounts of preview content may make your pages more or less
understandable and noticeable to search users. Consequently, those settings may
affect your search referral traffic. Find out more about how Search Console reports on
your site's performance
using position, clicks, and impressions.
If I implement markup to permit search previews, will Google pay me?
We believe that Search should operate on the basis of relevance and quality, not
commercial relationships. To operate in any other way would reduce the choice and
relevance to our users—and would ultimately result in the loss of trust in our
services. That's why we don't accept payment from anyone to be included in organic
search results and we don't pay for the links or preview content included in search
results. When you use the new markup tools, you consent to the use of that preview
content without payment, either to or from Google.
That's not to say you don't benefit. Preview content helps users understand what
makes your page relevant to their search, which experiments show makes them more
likely to click through. Google Search sends 8 billion clicks to European publishers
every month, each of which represents a real economic opportunity for publishers
through advertising or subscriptions.
Does content in "data-nosnippet" blocks still get indexed?
Yes. Using any of the methods to prevent text from being shown in a snippet won't
prevent that content from being indexed. These methods only limit what's being shown
in the search results snippet.
I prefer you not show my pages at all, how can I do that?
You can block individual pages from being shown in search by using the
noindex robots meta tag.
This meta tag would prevent the whole page from being shown in search, once it has
been processed. Please note that in order for this meta tag to be seen, the page must
not be disallowed from crawling through the robots.txt file.
Can't find the answer?
If you can't find the answer to your question on this page, check out Google's help resources for site owners.
We also provide official Google Search Central help communities in the following languages: English • Deutsch • Español • Français • Italiano • Nederlands • Polski • Português • Türkçe • Русский • العربية • 中文（简体） • 日本語 • 한국어
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2021-03-05 UTC.