https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/6229325

Featured snippets and your websiteFeatured snippets are special boxes where the format of regular listings is reversed, showing the descriptive snippet first. Read more about how Google's Featured Snippets work.
How can I opt out of featured snippets?
Block both featured and regular search snippets
The nosnippet tag blocks all snippets (featured snippets and regular snippets) for the tagged page.
Text marked by the data-nosnippet tag won't appear in featured snippets (or regular snippets either).
If both nosnippet and data-nosnippet appear in a page, nosnippet takes priority, and snippets won't be shown for the page.
Block featured snippets only
Those who wish to retain snippets in regularly-formatted search results but not appear in featured snippets should experiment with setting the max-snippet tag to lower lengths. Featured snippets will only appear if enough text can be shown to generate a useful featured snippet.
Keep lowering the value if pages continue to show for featured snippets. In general, the shorter your max-snippet tag setting, the less likely the page will appear as a featured snippet.
Google does not provide an exact minimum length required to appear as a featured snippet. This is because the minimum length is variable based on a number of factors, including—but not limited to—the information in the snippet, the language, and the platform (mobile device, app, or desktop).
Please note that using a low max-snippet setting does not guarantee that featured snippets won't be shown for your page. If you need a guaranteed solution, use the nosnippet tag.
How can I mark my page as a featured snippet?
You can't. Google systems determine whether a page would make a good featured snippet for a user's search request, and if so, elevates it.
What happens when a user clicks a featured snippet?
Clicking a featured snippet takes the user directly to the featured snippet text on the source web page. This happens automatically. There's no markup needed by webmasters to enable a featured snippet. If a browser doesn't support the underlying technology needed, or if our systems can't confidently determine exactly where within a page to direct a click, clicking a featured snippet will take a user to the top of the source web page.
Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit
true
Search AppearanceCreate good titles and snippets in Search ResultsEnable Search result features for your siteTools for adding structured data (for beginners)Enriched Search ResultsProvide a publication date to Google SearchDefine a favicon to show in search resultsFlexible Sampling general guidanceTop Places ListFeatured snippets and your website
New to Search Console? Never used Search Console before? Start here, whether you're a complete beginner, an SEO expert, or a website developer.