https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/sd-policies

Home
Products
Search for Developers
Guides
Follow the structured data guidelines
These are the general guidelines that apply to all structured data. These guidelines
must be followed to enable structured
data to be eligible for inclusion in Google Search results. Pages or sites that
violate these content guidelines may receive less favorable ranking or be marked
as ineligible for rich results in Google Search in order to maintain a high-quality
search experience for our users. If we find that your page contains spammy structured data or
content, we will apply a manual action to your page. To check if you have a manual action, open the
Manual
Actions report in Search Console.
Important: Google does not guarantee that your structured data will show up in search results, even
if your page is marked up correctly according to the Structured Data Testing Tool.
Here are some common reasons why:
Using structured data enables a feature to be present, it does not
guarantee that it will be present. The Google algorithm tailors
search results to create what it thinks is the best search experience for
a user, depending on many variables, including search history, location,
and device type. In some cases it may determine that one feature is more
appropriate than another, or even that a plain blue link is best.
The structured data is not representative of the main content of the page,
or is potentially misleading.
The structured data is incorrect in a way that the testing tool was not able
to catch.
The content referred to by the structured data is hidden from the user.
The page does not meet the guidelines for structured data described here, the
type-specific guidelines, or the general webmaster guidelines.
See more common structured data errors here.
Technical guidelines
You can test compliance with technical guidelines using the
Structured
Data Testing Tool and the
URL Inspection tool, which catches most technical errors.
Format
In order to be eligible for rich results, you should mark up your site’s pages
using one of three supported formats:
JSON-LD (recommended)
Microdata
RDFa
Access
Do not block your structured data pages to Googlebot using robots.txt, noindex,
or any other access control methods.
Quality guidelines
These guidelines are not easily testable using an automated tool.
Violating a quality guideline can prevent syntactically correct structured data from being
displayed as a rich result in Google Search, or possibly cause it
to be marked as spam.
Content
Follow the Google
webmasters quality guidelines.
Provide up-to-date information. We won’t show a rich result for time-sensitive
content that is no longer relevant.
Provide original content that you or your users have generated.
Don't mark up content that is not visible to readers of the page. For example, if the JSON-LD
markup describes a performer, the HTML body should describe that same performer.
Don't mark up irrelevant or misleading content, such as fake reviews or content
unrelated to the focus of a page.
Don't use structured data to deceive or mislead users. Don't impersonate any person or
organization, or misrepresent your ownership, affiliation, or primary purpose.
Content must not promote pedophilia, bestiality, sexual violence, violent
or cruel acts, targeted hatred, or dangerous activities.
Don't mark up content that engages in illegal activities or promotes goods, services,
or information that facilitates serious and immediate harm to others. Marking up content that
provides information about such content for educational purposes is permitted.
Relevance
Your structured data should be a true representation of the page content. Here
are some examples of irrelevant data:
A sports live streaming site labeling broadcasts as local events.
A woodworking site labeling instructions as recipes.
Completeness
Specify all required properties for your rich result type. Items that are missing
required properties are not eligible for rich results.
The more recommended properties that you provide, the higher quality the result is to
users. For example: users prefer job postings with explicitly stated
salaries than those without; users prefer recipes with actual user reviews and genuine
star ratings (note that reviews or ratings not by actual users are considered
spammy). Rich result
ranking takes extra information into consideration.
Location
Put the structured data on the page that it describes, unless specified otherwise
by the documentation.
If you have duplicate pages for the same content, we recommend placing the same structured
data on all page duplicates, not just on the canonical page.
Specificity
Try to use the most specific applicable type and property names defined by schema.org
for your markup.
Follow all additional guidelines given in the
documentation for your specific rich result type.
Images
When specifying an image as a structured data property, make sure that the image
actually belongs to the instance of that type. For example, if you define the
image property of schema.org/NewsArticle.image,
the marked-up image must directly belong to that news article.
All image URLs must be crawlable and indexable.
Otherwise, Google Search can't find and display them on the search results page.
Multiple elements on a page
You can include multiple structured data objects on a page, as long as they describe
user-visible page content. However, if you mark up one item in a list
you must mark up all items; marking up just one category entity from all listed
on the page is against our guidelines. Examples:
A recipe page with both recipe text and an accompanying video. Mark the text
and video separately with schema.org/Recipe and
schema.org/VideoObject respectively.
A category page listing several different
products (or recipes, videos, or any other type). Each entity should be
marked up using the relevant schema.org type, such as schema.org/Product
for product category pages. However, if one item is marked, all items should be marked.
Also, unless this is a carousel page, the marked items should not link out
to separate details pages.
A video play page with related videos embedded in a separate section on
the page. In this case, mark up the main video and related videos individually.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Last updated 2020-01-22.