https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/get-started

Home
Google Search Central
Documentation
Advanced SEO
Get started with Search: a developer's guide
Making your content search-friendly matters because it's how you get more relevant users viewing
your content. This is called search engine optimization (SEO), which can result in more
interested users coming to your site. If Google Search has trouble understanding your page,
you're possibly missing out on an important source of traffic.
This guide covers what developers can do to make sure that their sites work well with Google
Search. In addition to the items in this guide, make sure that your site is
secure,
fast,
accessible to all, and
works on all devices.
For help that's not so technical, visit the
SEO starter guide. The SEO
started guide covers other aspects of SEO, like authoring content.
Find out how Google sees your site
To get started, test your site in the
Mobile-Friendly Test to
see how Googlebot sees your site.
Googlebot is Google's web
crawling bot that discovers new and updated pages and adds them to the Google index. For
more information about the process, go to
How Google Search Works.
You may be surprised to find that Googlebot doesn't always see everything that you see in the
browser. In the following example, Googlebot doesn't know there are images on this page
because the page uses a JavaScript feature that isn't supported by Googlebot.
User
Here's how a user views the page. Users can view the images and text in the browser.
Googlebot
Here's how Googlebot views the page. Googlebot doesn't know there are images on this page
because the page uses a JavaScript feature that isn't supported by Googlebot.
Check your links
Googlebot navigates from URL to URL by following links, sitemaps, and redirects. Googlebot
treats every URL as if it's the first and only URL it has seen from your site. To make sure
that Googlebot can find all the URLs on your site:
Use <a href> with a valid URL. Ensure that all pages on the site can be
reached by a link from another
findable page. The referring link should include either text or, for images, an alt
attribute, that is relevant to the target page. Crawlable links are
tags with an
href attribute.
Build and submit a
sitemap to help Googlebot more intelligently crawl your site. A sitemap is a file where
you provide information about the pages, videos, and other files on your site, and the
relationships between them.
For JavaScript apps that have only one HTML page, make sure that each screen or piece of
individual content has a URL.
Check how you're using JavaScript
While Googlebot does run JavaScript, there are some differences and limitations that you need
to account for when designing your pages and applications to accommodate how crawlers access
and render your content.
Learn more about the basics of JavaScript SEO or how to fix
Search-related JavaScript problems.
To learn more about how Googlebot handles JavaScript when crawling, rendering and indexing, see the following video.
Keep Google updated when content changes
To make sure that Google finds your new or updated pages quickly:
Submit sitemaps.
Ask Google to recrawl your
URLs.
Use the Indexing API when
applicable.
If you're still having trouble getting your page indexed, check your server logs for errors.
Don't forget about the words on the page
Googlebot can only find content that is textually visible. For example, text in videos is
invisible to Googlebot. To make sure that Google Search understands what your page is about:
Make sure that your visual content is expressed in text form.
For example, a product category page that contains a list of images of shirts with no textual
context about each image is suboptimal. The product category page should include some
textual explanation for each image.
Make sure that every page has a
descriptive
title and
meta
description. Unique titles and meta descriptions help Google show how your
pages are relevant to users, which in turn can increase your search traffic.
Use semantic HTML. While Googlebot indexes HTML, PDF content, images,
and videos, it doesn't index content that requires plugins (for example, Flash, Java, or Silverlight)
or content that is rendered in a canvas. Instead of using a plugin, use semantic HTML markup
for your content whenever possible.
Tell Google about other versions of your content
Googlebot doesn't automatically know that there are multiple versions of your site or content. For
example, a mobile and desktop version, or international versions of your site. To make sure
that Google serves the right version to users, you can:
Consolidate duplicate
URLs.
Tell
Google about localized versions of your site.
Make your AMP pages
discoverable.
Control what content Google sees
There are several ways to block Googlebot:
To block Googlebot from finding your page, restrict access to your content to logged in
users (for example, use a login page or
password-protect your
page).
To block Googlebot from crawling your page,
create a robots.txt.
A robots.txt is not a mechanism for keeping a web page out of Google. To
keep a web page out of Google, you should use noindex tags or directives, or
password-protect your page.
To block Googlebot from indexing your page, allow crawling and
add a noindex
meta tag.
Combining multiple crawling and indexing directives might cause some
directives to counteract other directives. Learn how to configure these directives properly
by reading
Combining crawling with indexing / serving directives.
If your content isn't showing up in Google Search and you want it to show up, follow the
steps below:
Check if Googlebot can access the page with the
URL inspection tool.
Check your
robot.txt file to see if you're unintentionally blocking Googlebot from crawling your
site.
Check your HTML for "noindex" rules in meta tags.
Enable rich results for your site
A rich result can include styling, images, or other interactive features that can help your
site stand out more in Search results. You can help Google understand your page better and
show rich results for it in Search by providing explicit clues about the meaning of a page
with structured data on the page. If
you're not sure where to start, explore our
gallery of available features.
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2020-11-11 UTC.