https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/1050724

Home
Google Search Central
Help
Send feedback
Google Search crawling and indexing FAQ
This article brings together answers to the questions about crawling and indexing that we at Google hear most often.
How do I get my site into Google?
Crawling and indexing are processes which can take some time and which rely on many
factors. In general, we cannot make predictions or guarantees about when or if your
URLs will be crawled or indexed. When looking at a site's indexing in Search Console,
make sure that you have both the "www" and the "non-www" versions (like "www.example.com"
and "example.com") verified. Keep in mind that while a sitemap
file can help us learn about your site, it does not guarantee indexing or increase your site's ranking.
See guides about these processes
How Google Search works: Explains how crawling, indexing, and ranking works.
Why is my page missing from Google Search?: Explains common questions and issues.
Google's Webmaster Guidelines: Provide technical, content and quality guidelines for website owners.
Google-friendly sites: Provides some information about how to create a website so that it can easily be crawled and indexed.
Adding a site to Google: For specific advice and additional tips.
Index Coverage report: Learn which of your pages have been indexed and any problems encountered when indexing your site.
In general, the most common reason that a site is not indexed is because it's just too new; be
patient and ask Google to crawl
and index it.
More common reasons why
Here are the other common reasons why a website or parts of a website might not be indexed yet:
A website might not be well connected through multiple links from other sites on the web.
The design of the website might make crawling and indexing difficult. Maybe the site
itself is even explicitly blocking
crawling or indexing?
Perhaps it was temporarily unavailable when we attempted to crawl? You might find
crawl
errors in Search Console in this case.
Verify that the website complies with our Webmaster
Guidelines and hasn't been hacked
or otherwise modified by a third party.
In very rare cases, it might be that content previously hosted on a domain name is
causing issues. In this case, you may wish to submit a
reconsideration
request detailing the change of content and ownership.
If the website recently moved to a different address, make sure that you follow our
guidelines for moving
a site.
It's possible that a previous owner or someone else with access to the website
requested
removal through Search Console. You can cancel these requests by using the
Removals
Tool.
I have the same content available on two domains. How do I tell Google
that the two domains are the same site?
Use a 301 redirect to direct traffic from the alternative domain (example2.org) to your
preferred domain (example.com). This tells Google to always look for your content in one
location, and is the best way to ensure that Google (and other search engines) can crawl
and index your site correctly. Ranking signals (such as PageRank or incoming links) will
be passed appropriately across 301 redirects. If you're changing domains, read about the
best practices for making the move.
Do I have duplicate content? Am I being penalized for it? What should I do about it?
Generally, duplicate content does not lead to manual actions taken against your
site. For more information, read our article on
Demystifying the
"duplicate content penalty". If you're still concerned or want to know more, read
these articles:
Dealing with duplicate content
Duplicate content caused by URL parameters
Duplicate content caused by scrapers
Reunifying duplicate content on your website
Duplicate content and multiple site issues
Define a canonical page for similar or duplicate pages
Handling cross-domain duplication
Is it better to use subfolders or subdomains?
You should choose whatever is easiest for you to organize and manage. From an indexing
and ranking perspective, Google doesn't have a preference.
Does validating my site's code (with a tool such as the W3C validator) help my
site's ranking in Google?
No, at least not directly. However, cleaning up your HTML makes your site
render better in a
variety of browsers and more accessible.
I'm
using a hosting service for my site that uses frames, "masked redirects", or "masked
forwarding". Will this affect my site's crawling, indexing, or ranking?
We recommend always hosting your content directly using your domain name. Using a
forwarding service that uses frames will generally make crawling, indexing, and ranking
of your content using your domain name impossible.
I
changed some text on my pages. Why isn't it updated in search results?
Crawling and indexing of pages within a website can take some time. While there's no
way to force an update, here are some tips that may help to speed this process up:
Ask Google to recrawl your URLs.
If you are using a Sitemap file, make sure to update the last modification date.
If your site's content is indexed with multiple URLs, resolving the duplicate content issue within your site will generally allow crawlers to find updated content quicker.
My website uses pages made with PHP, ASP, CGI, JSP, CFM, etc. Will these still get indexed?
Yes! Provided these technologies serve pages that are visible in a browser, without
special plugins installed or enabled, Googlebot will generally be able to crawl, index,
and rank them without problems. We have no preference; they're all equivalent in terms
of crawling, indexing, and ranking, as long as we can crawl them.
I recently purchased a domain
that was previously associated with a spammy website. What can I do to make sure that
spammy history doesn't affect my site now?
Verify
your site in Search Console, then check to see if there's a manual action in the
Manual
Actions report.
Can't find the answer?
If you can't find the answer to your question on this page, check out Google's help resources for site owners.
We also provide official Google Search Central help communities in the following languages: English • Deutsch • Español • Français • Italiano • Nederlands • Polski • Português • Türkçe • Русский • العربية • 中文（简体） • 日本語 • 한국어
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2021-03-03 UTC.