https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/9353008

Google Assistant in ChromeGoogle Assistant in Chrome automates certain user tasks, such as buying movie tickets, for your site visitors. This page describes how to enable or disable Google Assistant in Chrome for your website. Learn more about Google Assistant in Chrome.
Overview
Google Assistant in Chrome operates in two stages.
Crawling and Analyzing: Google Assistant trains periodically against your site to perform certain actions. This behavior is powered by the Duplex on the Web service; to control how Google Assistant in Chrome crawls and analyzes your site, see Duplex on the Web user agent.
Serving: If Google Assistant in Chrome is enabled for your site in Search Console, Google Assistant in Chrome can offer to perform supported actions for site visitors, such as purchasing movie tickets. Google Assistant in Chrome is enabled by default for all sites that fulfill the requirements described on this page. If this setting is disabled in Search Console, Google Assistant in Chrome will not be able to perform supported actions on your site.
If crawling and analyzing is disabled, but serving is enabled, Google Assistant in Chrome might not work well, or not at all, on your site for supported actions.
Enable Google Assistant for your site
To enable Google Assistant in Chrome supported actions for your site:
Follow the guidelines for the Google Assistant in Chrome actions that you want to support on your site.
Open the Google Assistant in Chrome settings page for your property and click Enable (if not already selected). Enabling this setting takes a few hours or days.These rules apply when changing this setting.
Optional: If your site is password-protected, we recommend providing a name and password in the Testing credentials section of the page. This enables Google Assistant in Chrome access to train against your site.
Google will notify you when your request to enable serving has been processed and the assistant has begun training against your site.
Disable Google Assistant in Chrome on your site
To disable serving (allowing Google Assistant in Chrome to perform actions on your site), click Disable in the Google Assistant in Chrome settings page. Disabling should be effective within a few minutes. You can enable it again later, but enabling can take a few days. Note that Google Assistant in Chrome will continue crawling and training against your site unless you explicitly disable crawling as described in the next bullet.
To disable crawling by the training engine, add one of these robots.txt rules to your site. The robots.txt rules take effect at the next training attempt. Note that Google Assistant in Chrome might continue to work on your site (although sub-optimally) when users visit, unless you specifically disable serving, as described in the previous bullet.
Details about this setting
The following rules apply to the Google Assistant in Chrome setting in Search Console:
You must be a property owner to see or change the settings for Google Assistant in Chrome.
Enabling Google Assistant in Chrome for your site can take a few hours or days. Disabling it takes place immediately.
Property owners will be notified when the property settings change.
Google Assistant in Chrome settings are visible and configurable only in a Domain property. URL-prefix properties cannot see or modify these settings.
Google Assistant in Chrome settings are inherited from the topmost containing property, and can be modified only in that topmost property. Child properties have read-only access to the settings. For example, in the properties m.example.com , m.support.example.com, and example.com, the setting can be viewed in all properties, but changed only in the topmost property example.com.
General guidelines for all actions
Supported locations: Google Assistant in Chrome currently works only for users in the US and the UK.
Sites should follow these guidelines to enable any Google Assistant in Chrome actions, in addition to any additional guidelines for a specific action:
Enable training:
You must either allow anonymous access to your site, or provide a name and password to Duplex on the Web using the Search Console setting for your site.
Do not block crawling by the Duplex on the Web user agent.
Follow HTML standards and best practices on your site.
Supported actions for Google Assistant in Chrome
Google Assistant in Chrome can perform different actions on your site, powered by Duplex on the Web. The following list shows what actions are supported, and the requirements for that action.
Ticket purchases (movie theaters only)
Enable Google Assistant to purchase movie theater tickets for users on your theater website.
Requirements
Action supported in the US and UK only: both the theater and the user (based on query location) must be in the US or UK.
Enable Google Assistant in Chrome for your site.
Ensure that deep links to the movie ticket checkout flow on your website are included in the Google Showtimes Assistant and Search experience.
You must not show paid ads in the movie ticket checkout flow on your website.
You must offer credit card payment in the movie ticket checkout flow on your website. Other payment services are not supported.
Follow the other general guidelines.
Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit
true
Property SettingsProperty Settings pageChange of Address ToolEuropean press publication settingGoogle Assistant in ChromeInternational Targeting reportChange Googlebot crawl rate
New to Search Console? Never used Search Console before? Start here, whether you're a complete beginner, an SEO expert, or a website developer.