https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/podcast-management

Manage your podcast and episodes on GoogleIf you are a podcast publisher, here is how to manage your podcast's presence on Google Podcasts after Google Podcasts has found your show.
Managing podcasts
Add a podcast
See if your podcast is already on Google:
Open Google Podcasts.
Search for your podcast.
If your podcast is not available, add it as described in Get your podcast on Google.
Update a podcast
You can update information about your podcast, such as the name or description, in your RSS feed
If you move the location of your RSS feed, for example, to another hosting service, see Move your show's feed to a new URL
Google checks known feeds for changes several times a day. In most cases, this is frequent enough that you don't need to do anything else. However, you can explicitly request a recrawl of your feed if you need an update within 30 minutes. If you notice that Google hasn't implemented your changes in 3-5 days, read the troubleshooting guide.
Remove a podcast
To remove a podcast from Google Podcasts platforms quickly (3-5 days):
Add one of the following tags to your RSS feed as a direct child of the <channel> element:
<googleplay:block>yes</googleplay:block>
<itunes:block>yes</itunes:block>
Ask Google to recrawl your feed.
Alternatively, you can remove or password-protect your RSS feed, use robots.txt, or noindex to block access to your RSS feed. However, these methods can take 3-4 weeks to take effect.
Move your show's feed to a new URL (change podcasting hosts)
If you move your podcast feed to a new URL, you should tell Google about the new location:
Move your feed:
If you are using a podcast hosting service
Search for information about how to move from another hosting provider. Your provider should provide a mechanism for telling people about your feed move. If your podcasting service doesn't support migrating your feed to a new location, then create your new feed and contact Podcasts Manager support with your old and new feed URLs.
If you are managing your RSS feed directly:
Post your feed in the new location, and add the following tag, where new_feed_URL is the new URL of the feed (that is, it points to itself).:
<itunes:new-feed-url>new_feed_URL</itunes:new-feed-url>
Create a 301 (permanent) redirect from your old feed URL to your new feed URL.
Ask Google to recrawl your feed.
Re-verify ownership in Podcasts Manager. If you are using Podcasts Manager, you will need to re-verify your feed ownership. Visit your show in Podcasts Manager to see when Google has noticed the change and requires re-verification.
Managing episodes
Add or update an episode
To add, update, or remove an episode from Google Podcasts platforms, update your RSS feed. Google checks known feeds for changes several times a day. In most cases, this is frequent enough that you don't need to do anything else. However, you can explicitly request a recrawl of your feed if you need an update within 30 minutes.
Remove an episode
To remove an episode from your shown on Google Podcasts platforms,
Use either of the following methods:
Add one of the following tags to your RSS feed as a child of the <item> to block. These tags prevent the podcast from appearing in Google Podcasts platforms, but they don't affect the visibility of the host page in Google Search. Removal from Google Podcasts platforms should occur in 3-5 days.
<googleplay:block>yes</googleplay:block>
<itunes:block>yes</itunes:block>
Remove the episode from your RSS feed. Removal from Google Podcasts platforms should occur in 3-4 weeks.
Ask Google to recrawl your feed.
Update all your feeds when making changes. Only the served feed is used by Google but Google can change the served feed without notice.
Help Google find your show
Many listeners use Google Search to find podcasts. Here is a summary of the most important practices to help listeners find your show on Google, once your podcast is available on Google:
In your RSS file, include detailed show and episode metadata: The show description and episode descriptions help us deliver more accurate search results and provide users with more context on the contents of an episode. Of course, follow general best practices for adding useful and relevant descriptions.
If you have a web page for your podcast (highly recommended):
Follow Search best practices for your webpage.
Make sure that the title of the show's homepage and the title of the RSS feed match.
The homepage and RSS feed point to each other. More details here.
Include cover art: We recently changed our guidelines to make cover art images in your podcast feed required, rather than optional. More details are here.
Allow Googlebot to access your audio files: We recommend making sure that your audio files, the actual mp3s within your RSS feed, are able to be crawled and accessible to Googlebot. While this is recommended and not required, if we can crawl your audio files, it allows our technology to use these files to understand the entirety of the podcast. This allows us to surface this podcast to users for a broader range of topics, as we understand the full context of the episode, and aren't limited to the description. More details are here.
Our podcast search algorithms are based on the same principles as web search, so familiarizing yourself with How Search Works can provide you with valuable insights about optimizing your podcast titles and descriptions.
Google checks known feeds several times a day for any updates. You can check when Google last read your feed
Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit
true
HelpAbout podcasts on GoogleGet your podcast on GoogleManage your podcast and episodes on GoogleMonitor your podcast usageMarket your podcast with Google Podcasts brandingTroubleshooting
Get started with Google Podcasts Manager After you've gotten your podcast on Google, monitor and analyze your listener data on Google Podcasts Manager.