https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/7687615

Managing owners, users, and permissionsYou can be an owner or user of a property. Each of these roles has different rights and capabilities. You can grant permissions to other users only if you are a property owner.
See and manage the user list on the Users and Permissions page.
MANAGE USERS AND PERMISSIONS
Permissions
Each user for a Search Console property is assigned one of the following permissions:
Owner: Owners have full control over properties in Search Console. They can add and remove other users, configure settings, view all data, and use all tools.
There are two types of owners, verified and delegated, although both are reported as simply "Owner" in the settings page. A property must have at least one verified owner, or no users will have access to the property.
Verified owner: Performed some action to verify ownership of the property (for example, posting a special verification file on the website), or Google could deduce ownership (for example, the Blogger account and Search Console account are the same Google account).
Delegated owner: Was granted ownership rights by a verified owner, but has never verified ownership. Can add users or other delegated owners. A delegated owner is shown as an owner without any verification methods in the settings page. If all verified owners lose verification, then all other users, including delegated owners, will lose access to the property.
Full user: Has view rights to all data and can take some actions.
Restricted user: Has simple view rights on most data.
Associate: Associates are people or accounts that can take certain actions on behalf of your site, or access certain data. Unlike site owners and users, associates can't open or view your Search Console account or data directly but they are authorized to perform other tasks. The actions and permissions vary depending on the type of association (for example, Chrome Web store or YouTube channel).
Permission details
Feature
Owner
Full user
Restricted user
Property settings (geotargeting, crawl rate)
View only
URL Parameters
View only
Change of Address
View only
View only
User administration
Details
Details
Index Coverage
View only
Blocked URLs
URL Inspection
Fetch only
Performance
Links
Remove URLs
View only
Rich result status reports
Receive messages
1
Reconsideration request
Disavow links
Link Google Analytics account
Add / remove property owners
Data Highlighter
Verify fixes
Share report links
1 Restricted users receive only messages that specifically affect them.
We lost our site owner!
If the verified owner of your site leaves, or you're not sure who the verified owner is, verify another site owner. The new owner will be able to see the list of all owners and users verified to that site, as well as the verification methods for each owner. You can then optionally unverify previous owners by removing their verification token (for example, removing the HTML tag from the site, for HTML-tag-verified owners). See Add or remove owners for more information.
Add or remove users
A property can have a maximum of 100 users with edit or view-only permissions.
To add a new user
Choose a property in Search Console.
Click the Settings icon  in the navigation pane.
Click Users & permissions.
Click Add user and select the permissions to grant the user. Type the Google Account name (email) of the new user. (One must have a Google Account to be granted access to a Search Console property.)
Choose the permission level to grant the user.
The new user must add the property to their property list in order to access it.
To delete a user
Choose a property in Search Console.
Click the Settings icon  in the navigation pane.
Click Users & permissions.
Select the  menu next to the user to delete and click Remove access. The change should take effect very quickly.
Add or remove owners
Verified owners
A verified owner has verified themselves through some sort of verification token (HTML page or tag, DNS record, or some other method).
If all verified owners are removed, then all users and delegated owners will lose access to the property, after a grace period. Data for the property will continue to be collected, but nobody will have access to it until someone verifies ownership of the property.
To add yourself as a verified owner
Follow the verification flow.
You can't add someone else as verified owner, because they need to create a token associated with their personal Google account. If they follow the verification flow and give you the token (for instance, an HTML file for HTML file verification), you can upload the token for them to verify their ownership.
To delete a verified owner
To remove a verified owner from a property, you must delete all tokens used to verify their ownership of the property. For example, the HTML verification file for HTML file upload, or the Google Analytics tracking code for the Analytics code verification method.
Open the Users and Permissions page.
Next to the owner that you want to remove, select Manage property owners.
Follow the flow to unverify the given owner immediately. The owner's verification token must be gone, or else the unverify request will fail.
Delegated owners
A delegated owner is granted owner status by a verified owner without going through the verification flow.
To add another user as an owner, or upgrade someone's status from user to owner
Note that you must be a verified owner to add a new owner.
Open the Users and Permissions page for your property.
Click Add user.
Specify the user information.
To remove ownership from a delegated owner
Open the Users and Permissions page for your property.
Next to the owner that you want to remove, open the more menu
Select Manage property owners
Next to the user name on the table, click Unverify.
To downgrade a delegated owner to a user
Remove ownership from the delegated owner (described above).
Add a user with the desired permission (full or restricted).
Change permissions for an existing user
You must be a verified owner to be able to change permissions of another user.
You can change permissions for any non-verified owner.
If you want to upgrade a user to an owner, or downgrade them from an owner to a user, see Add or remove owners.
To change user permissions:
Open the Users and Permissions page for your property.
Next to the user that you want to modify, select a different permission level.
The change should take effect very quickly.
Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit
true
Get your site on Search ConsoleAdd a website propertyRemove a propertyVerify your site ownershipManaging owners, users, and permissionsI don't recognize this new owner
New to Search Console? Never used Search Console before? Start here, whether you're a complete beginner, an SEO expert, or a website developer.