https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/pause-online-business

Home
Google Search Central
Documentation
Advanced SEO
Pause your business online
If you're unable to fulfill orders or many of your products out of stock, you may be considering
temporarily closing your online business. If the situation is temporary, meaning you expect to
be able to sell products in the coming weeks or months, we recommend that you take action that
preserves as much of your site's standing in Search as possible. This guide explains how you
can safely pause your online business.
Limit your site's functionality (recommended)
If your situation is temporary and you plan to reopen your online business, we recommend that
you keep your site online and limit the functionality. This is the recommended approach since
it minimizes any negative effects on your site's presence in Search. People can still find your
products, read reviews, or add wishlists so they can purchase at a later time. We recommend doing the
following:
Disable the cart functionality: Disabling the cart functionality is the
simplest approach, and doesn't change anything for your site's visibility in Search.
Display a banner or popup: A banner or popup div on all pages including the
landing page quickly makes the status clear to users. Mention any known and unusual delays,
shipping times, pick-up or delivery options, so that users continue with the right
expectations.
To prevent the content in the banner or popup from being shown in a snippet in Search results,
use the data-nosnippet HTML attribute.
Make sure to follow our
guidelines
on popups and banners.
Update your structured data: If your site uses structured data (for example,
Product,
Book,
Event), make sure to adjust it appropriately
(reflecting the current product availability, or changing events to cancelled). If your business has a
physical storefront, update Local Business
structured data to reflect current opening hours.
Check your Merchant Center feed: If you use Merchant Center, follow the
best practices for the
availability attribute.
Tell Google about your updates: To ask Google to recrawl a
limited number of pages (for example, the homepage), use Search Console. For a larger number of pages (for example, all of your product
pages), use sitemaps.
Not recommended: Disable the whole website
Warning:
Google's systems are designed to be robust and
to help websites recover from temporary issues. However, removing a site completely from
Google's index is a significant change that can take quite some time to recover from. There's
no fixed time for a recovery from a complete removal, and there's no mechanism to speed that
up. This is why we strongly recommend limiting functionality instead of removing the site from
Search.
You may decide to disable the whole website. This is an extreme measure that should only be
taken for a very short period of time (a few days at most), as it will otherwise have
significant effects on the website in Search, even when implemented properly.
Make sure that you consider the following side effects of disabling your entire site:
Your customers won't know what's happening with your
business if they can't find your business online at all.
Your customers can't find or read first-hand information
about your business and its
example, reviews, specs, repair guides, or manuals won't be
findable. Third-party information may not be as correct or comprehensive as what you can
provide. This often also affects future purchase decisions.
Knowledge Panels may lose information, like contact
phone numbers and your site's logo.
Search Console verification will fail, and you will lose
all access to information about your business in Search. Aggregate reports in Search Console
will lose data as pages are
dropped from the index.
Ramping back up after a prolonged period of time will be
significantly harder if your website needs to be reindexed first. Additionally, it's
uncertain how long this would take, and whether the site would appear similarly in Search
afterwards.
If you decide that you need to do this (again, not recommended), here are
some options:
If you need to urgently disable the site for 1-2 days, then return an informational
error page with a 503
HTTP result code instead of all content. Make sure to follow the
best practices for disabling a site.
If you need to disable the site for a longer time, then provide an indexable homepage as
a placeholder for users to find in Search by using the 200 HTTP status code.
If you quickly need to hide your site in Search while you consider the options, you can
temporarily
remove a website from Search.
Best practices for disabling a site
Warning: Keep in mind that it's not possible for
Google's systems to refresh titles, descriptions, metadata, or structured data included on a
website if a page returns a 503 HTTP result code.
While we don't recommend disabling your site, here are some best practices if you decide to do
this:
Continue to allow crawling through the robots.txt file. Don't return a 503 HTTP
result code for the robots.txt file because this blocks all crawling.
Confirm a 503 HTTP result code locally by using
curl or a similar tool. For example:
curl -I -X GET "https://www.example.com/"
HTTP/1.1 503 Service Unavailable
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/html
(...)
To minimize the server-side and client-side load of a 503 error page, follow these best practices:
Use the retry-after
HTTP header with a best effort date or duration.
Use static HTML.
Minimize off-page resources; use inline CSS stylesheets and base-64-encoded images.
Give your users clear guidance on future steps within the content of the error page. This
could include:
Links to more information
The date when you expect the website to be online again, or when the information will be
updated
How to contact customer service
Don't disallow all crawling in the robots.txt file. Returning a valid robots.txt file that
disallows all crawling may remove the website's content, and potentially its URLs, from Google
Search.
Don't block the website by returning 403, 404, 410 HTTP status codes, or with a
noindex robots meta tag or x-robots-tag HTTP header. This will remove the
website's URLs from Google Search.
Don't use the temporary website removal tool in Search Console for closures. Doing so will
make it impossible for users to find your website so that they can learn its status. Also,
potential resellers or affiliates of your business's products may continue to be shown in
Search.
Don't block your robots.txt file with a 503 HTTP result code.
FAQs
What if I only close the site for a few weeks?
Completely closing a site even for just a few weeks can have negative consequences on
Google's indexing of your site. We recommend limiting the site
functionality instead. Keep in mind that users may also want to find information
about your products, your services, and your company, even if you're currently not
selling anything.
What if I want to exclude all non-essential products?
That's fine. Make sure that people can't buy the non-essential products by
limiting the site functionality.
Can I ask Google to crawl less while my site is temporarily closed?
Yes, you can reduce the Googlebot
crawl rate, though it's not recommended for most cases. This may have some impact
on the freshness of your results in Search. For example, it may take longer for Search
to reflect that all of your products are currently not available. On the other hand,
if Googlebot's crawling causes critical server resource issues, this is a valid
approach. We recommend setting a reminder for yourself to reset the crawl rate once
you're ready to go back in business.
How do I get a page indexed or updated quickly?
To ask Google to recrawl a limited number of pages (for example, the homepage), use
Search Console.
For a larger number of pages (for example, all of your product pages),
use sitemaps.
What if I block a specific region from accessing my site?
Google generally crawls from the US. If you block the US, Google Search won't be able
to access your site at all. We don't recommend that you block an entire region from
temporarily accessing your site; instead, we recommend limiting
the site functionality for that region.
Should I use the Removals Tool
to remove out-of-stock products?
No. If you do this, customers won't be able to find first-hand information about your
products on Search, and there might still be third-party information for the product
that may be incorrect or incomplete. It's better to still allow that page, and mark it
out of stock. That way people can still understand what's going on, even if they can't
purchase the item. If you remove the product from Search, people don't know why it's gone.
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2020-11-11 UTC.