https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/6332384

Home
Search Central
Documentation
Advanced SEO
Send feedback
Remove information from Google
Trying to remove information about yourself? See Remove your personal information from Google instead.
"Get something off Google" means different things to different people.
We're going to explain how to request information removal, but please read the information carefully.
You must answer the following two questions before you can try to remove your information:
Do you want to remove the information only from Google Search, or from the web?
Removing information from Google won't remove it from the web, and removing information from the web
requires a few extra steps to remove from Google.
Who controls the source page of the information? Information in Google
Search results is taken from a source (often, but not always, a web page). You need
to know the source of that content, and who controls that source, in order to block or
remove it.
Examples of sources that you control
Your Blogger pages
A website that you own (for example, Brandon owns www.brandonsbaseballcards.com)
A Wix or Wordpress site that you run
A Google My Business entry that you created for your company
Your own social media profile on Twitter or Facebook
Examples of sources that you probably don't control
A story about you on a newspaper website
An entry in someone else's blog (even if it's artwork or a picture that you made, you don't
control the page it lives in)
A Pinterest page that has pinned a photo that you took, or a photo of you
A Wikipedia article about you
Someone else's social media profile on Twitter or Facebook
You'll probably want to get your information off both Google search results and the web; you
must handle these steps separately.
Protect or remove all variations of the URL for the content that you want to
hide, because in many cases, different URLs can point to the same page, for example:
example.com/puppies, example.com/PUPPIES, and
example.com/petchooser?pet=puppies. Learn
how to find the right URL to block.
Get information off Google search results
How to remove information from Google search results depends on whether you have control of
the page that hosts the information.
If you own the content but not the page where it lives,
see If you don't control the page; for example, if someone
copies material from your website to theirs without your permission.
If you control the page
If the content is on a website that you control, or is managed by an account that you control
(for example, in your Blogger page), or you are the
verified site
owner in Google Search Console, here is how to remove your content from Google search results.
If the source page no longer exists (or is inaccessible) on the web
If the page where the information came from is no longer on the web, or it is now protected
by a login, file a URL
removal request. (Requires you to be logged in with a Google account.)
First confirm that the page is truly gone before doing this! You can
check by opening an
incognito window in Chrome and trying to visit the page. If the page can't be reached, it is gone.
If the information still exists on the web
If the page where the information comes from is still accessible on the web, and doesn't
require a login or have a noindex
directive, follow these steps:
Temporarily hide information from Google Search by filing a
URL removal
request. This takes effect in about a day, but it is only temporary (after about 90
days it will reappear in search results). You must take the additional steps described next to
remove it from Google search results permanently. You must be a verified site owner of
the page in Search Console to do this. We recommend removing the page from both
search results and the cache in your request.
Permanently remove information from Google search results. To permanently
remove your page or file from Google Search:
Block access to it, as described in Get
information off the web.
Add a
noindex tag or header to your page. Important:
When using this method, be sure that your page is not blocked by a robots.txt
file.
OR
Remove an image from search results using
robots.txt to block either the image or
the page that hosts it. Again, this is to remove only an image; not the entire page, from
search results. If you use robots.txt it is possible for the page, but not the image, to
appear in search results. To block the hosting page from search results, you must use one
of the other two techniques mentioned previously.
[Optional] Remove or limit access to your information. See
Get information off the web. If you don't do this,
users with a link can still access your content. This also prevents your information from
appearing in a search engine that might not respect robots.txt or noindex,
or from being linked to by a website.
If you don't control the web page
The removal process depends on whether or not the information is still visible on the page where Google found it:
The content no longer exists on the source web page
The content still exists on the source web page
Please remember that Google doesn't own the web; we just help you find stuff on it. If you
don't like something on a website that Google doesn't own, we really can't make the website
owner remove it, we can only remove it from Google search results (if appropriate). Sorry!
However, if you think there is a legal or Google Policy violation, see More information .
The content no longer exists on the source web page
If the content is no longer available, you can request that Google remove it from Google
Search results using the Remove Outdated Content tool:
This request works only for pages and images that have already been updated or removed
from the web.
Use the
correct URL in your request. If you use the wrong URL, the result won't be removed.
Add a separate request for each URL found in Google web search results and image search
results.
The content still exists on the source web page
Contact the website owner and ask them to remove the page. Remember to ask
for removal all copies of the information on all their pages, as well as any images.
If you cannot contact the site owner, or they are unwilling to remove the
information:
If the information lives on a Google property such as YouTube or
Blogger, see
the removal troubleshooter for Google Properties.
If the information lives on a non-Google property, use the
Removal
Troubleshooter for third-party pages.
After the source content is removed, remove the information from Google
search results using the Remove
Outdated Content tool. You must request removal for the URL of each page or image that
appears in Google search results.
Get information off the web
If you want information removed from the web (not just from Google), you'll need to remove
or block the page.
If you only remove information from Google, but don't remove or block the source page, that
won't keep someone who has a link from visiting the page. People can have links to your
unlisted page because they visited it earlier, or someone sent it to them, or because other
pages link to it.
If you control the page
Password-protect your file or page.
Delete your file or page.
For Google properties:
Google Shopping and some other properties: You can
opt out of
search results for specific Google properties here.
Business information: You can edit
business information that you added in Google My Business.
Other Google properties: To remove content from other Google properties,
search the help documentation for your product to learn how to remove it.
If you don't control the page
Try to contact
the page owner and ask them to remove the content. Then remove the information from
Google search results as described in The content no
longer exists on the source web page.
For pages hosted on Google properties (such as Google Play Music, Google Ads, or YouTube),
try this troubleshooter.
See More information.
Please remember that Google doesn't own the web; we just help you find stuff on it. If you
don't like something on a website that Google doesn't own, we really can't make the website
owner remove it, we can only remove it from Google search results (if appropriate). Sorry!
However, if you think there is a legal or Google Policy violation, see
More information.
More information
I object to something that I've found on Google Search. Can I have it taken down?
Remember that the Internet is a big place, and you might not like or agree with everything
that you see. Google's goal is to identify what information from the web is relevant to users'
queries, not to determine whether that material is in some sense wrongful.
However, if you think it really is a problem, here are some options:
Adult material: Report
adult material to Google SafeSearch, which blocks some explicit material from Google
search results.
Google policy violations: Review
Google's removal policies to learn which types of material we remove from Google Search
results upon request.
Legal violations: Ask
Google to evaluate a removal request under applicable law.
Copyright violations: If you have found content violating your copyright,
you can submit
a DMCA takedown request.
How do I remove or update information from the Google knowledge panel in search results?
Learn how
to update a Google knowledge panel. Keep in mind that information in the knowledge panel
may come from multiple sources.
For legal requests,
report a legal removal issue.
How do I get a video or post off YouTube, Blogger, or other Google properties?
See Get information off the web.
Why can't I use robots.txt to block my file?
If you use a robots.txt file on your website,
you can tell Google not crawl a page. However, if Google finds a link to your page on another
site, with descriptive text, we might generate a search result from that. If you have included
a noindex tag on the page, Google won't see it, because Google
must crawl (fetch) the page in order to see that tag, but Google won't fetch your page if
there's a robots.txt file blocking it. Therefore, you should let Google crawl the page and
see the noindex tag or header. It sounds counterintuitive, but
you need to let Google try to fetch the page and fail (because of password protection) or see
the noindex tag
to ensure it's omitted from search results.
This does not apply to images; for images, robots.txt is the correct way to block images from
search results.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2021-03-11 UTC.