https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/podcast-troubleshooting

Troubleshooting
Contents
Problems with Google podcasting
Find your show or episode on Google Podcasts
Podcast is not on Google
Episode is not on Google
Podcast is served from another feed
No podcast-level result in Google Search
Google isn't noticing your feed updates
Show isn't associated with your website
Google chose the wrong RSS feed for your show (suggest a different feed for your show)
Playback fails, opens a new tab, or downloads the audio file
Request recrawl
Block or remove my show
Other show actions on Google Podcasts
Problems with Google Podcasts Manager
Podcast is already claimed
Lost access to your show
Request access to a show
Episode is missing from show in Podcasts Manager
No data for episode
Episode appears twice in my show
Sharp drop-off in data for episodes or show
Slow drop-off in data
Served feed changed, but can't reverify
Data discrepancies
I'm told that I already verified ownership of a feed, but I didn't
Other show actions on Google Podcasts Manager
Find your show or episode on Google Podcasts
To find your show on Google Podcasts
If your show is registered in Google Podcasts Manager:
Open your show in Google Podcasts Manager.
Click your show's icon.
If your show isn't registered in Google Podcasts manager:
Open Google Podcasts.
Search for your podcast.
To find your episode in Google Podcasts
Open your show in Google Podcasts and search for your episode name
or
Simply search for your show and episode name in Google Search, or in Google Podcasts search
Podcast is not on Google
If your podcast isn't appearing in Google Search or Google Podcasts, try the following troubleshooting steps. Note that Google doesn't guarantee that every podcast will show up on Google.
1. Check that your feed is indexed
A feed must be indexed by Google before it can appear on any Google Podcasts platform. Being indexed means that Google has found, read, and stored your RSS feed in the Google index.
To check whether your feed is indexed by Google:
Search for your show on Google Podcasts:
Open Google Podcasts.
Search for your podcast.
If the show isn't present:
Check that Google could reach your RSS feed:
Open the Google PubSubHubbub site.
In the Publisher Diagnostics enter your feed URL in the Topic URL text box, then click Get Info.
Check the last successful fetch time. This is the last time that Google was able to see your feed (not whether feed was valid). If there is no fetch time, request a recrawl of your feed, wait a few days, then check Google Podcasts again to see if your show is now appearing. If the feed was fetched but is still not appearing, move on to step 2.
2. Check the validity of your RSS feed
Confirm the validity and completeness of your RSS feed:
Check validity: Use an RSS validator to confirm that your feed is well-formed, but note that Google can tolerate some RSS errors. Validate your feed by URL, rather than simply pasting your code into a validator, to ensure that the feed is reachable.
Check completeness: Confirm that your feed includes all Google-required podcast-level tags for podcasts, and at least one episode with the required episode tags.
Confirm that your feed isn't blocked: Your feed should not include either of these tags. If the episode or show does contain a blocking tag, it won't appear on Google.
<itunes:block>yes</itunes:block>
<googleplay:block>yes</googleplay:block>
3. Confirm that Google can access your feed and homepage
Confirm that Google can access your feed. A quick way to do this is to enter the feed URL and homepage URL in an incognito window.
If you have a homepage, but Google doesn't seem to know about it:
Confirm that Google can access your homepage. Use the Mobile Friendly test tool on your homepage, and see if it reports any issues with noindex or robots.txt rule. These issues can prevent Google from reading your homepage. Fixing those issues is beyond the scope of this document, but read the linked documentation to learn how to address these issues.
In your homepage, confirm that you have a link to your served RSS feed URL, and that the URL is correct.
Confirm that the <link> element in your feed points to the homepage.
Note that it takes Podcasts Manager about a day to confirm fixes to an inaccessible or broken feeds, so wait a day and confirm that the warning about an inaccessible feed has disappeared from your show in Podcasts Manager.
Episode is not on Google
If your show is available to listeners on Google Podcasts platforms, but new episodes aren't appearing (or other changes aren't appearing):
Confirm that you haven't blocked your episode
See Google isn't noticing your feed updates.
If an episode is missing from Podcasts Manager, see Episode is missing from a show in Podcasts Manager.
Podcast is already claimed
If you try to verify ownership of a feed, but get a warning that the podcast is already claimed, you should contact the owner listed in the currently verified feed. Visit the feed that you tried to claim* and look for the owner email listed in the <googleplay:owner> or <itunes:owner> tag. Send an email to that owner asking for access to the show in Podcasts Manager.
* If you asked to claim feed 1 but were directed to claim feed 2, contact the owner of feed 2, not the owner of feed 1.
If you think that an unauthorized person has claimed ownership of your feed, you can contact us with the details of your claim.
Podcast is served from another feed
If you try to verify a feed to a show that Google Podcasts already serves, Podcasts Manager will not allow you to verify the requested feed. Podcasts Manager will show the URL of the feed that Google currently serves for this podcast, and provide a link to file a request if you think that Google is serving the wrong feed for this show.
No podcast-level result in Google Search
A podcast-level search result shows information about your whole podcast, and also includes a carousel of episodes just for your podcast, as shown here (the exact layout may change):
If your podcast homepage isn't showing up in search results:
If you use Search Console, and you have verified the property that contains your homepage, use the URL Inspection tool to see if Google has indexed your podcast homepage, and if not, why not.
If you don't use Search Console, do a search on Google for your homepage URL. If your homepage is not in search results, read more about troubleshooting a missing page in Google Search. If your homepage is in search results, you just might not be ranking highly; here are a few tips on optimizing your page for search engines.
It can take a few days to find and add your homepage to Google Search. Indexing your RSS feed might happen faster than indexing your homepage.
Confirm that your RSS feed and homepage reference each other with the correct URLs.
If your podcast homepage shows up in search, but without any episodes
If you don't see any episodes listed with your podcast homepage in Google Search results:
Confirm that your feed is associated with your homepage
Confirm that your feed lists at least one episode. Use an RSS validator on your served feed.
Confirm that Google has crawled your feed and website recently enough to notice any changes or fixes you've made.
If your podcast is in search results, but without any special formatting:
Confirm that your feed is associated with your homepage.
Confirm that Google can access the linked homepage. Enter the homepage URL in an incognito window
Confirm that your homepage complies with Google webmaster guidelines. Your homepage, unlike your RSS feed, must comply with those guidelines in order to appear in Search results.
Google doesn't guarantee special formatting or features for podcast search results. Even if you have done everything properly, in some cases Google Search might decide that a different format is more appropriate for search results for your podcast.
Google isn't noticing your feed updates
It takes Podcasts Manager about a day to notice most feed updates. Additionally, there is a 2-3 day data latency in Podcasts Manager data, so it can take a few days after a successful fix or newly discovered feed to begin to see data for your show.
For things like removing a show, some methods are faster than others.
If your podcast already appears on Google, but updates are not being picked up (for example, new episodes, or podcast description changes):
Be aware that removing an episode will remove it from Google Podcasts platforms for listeners, but if the episode has any listening data in the last 16 months, it will stay on Podcasts Manager.
Google should pick up changes to an existing feed in less than a day. If it's only been ten minutes since you published your change, wait a few hours then check again.
Confirm that you are updating the served feed for your show. If you have multiple feeds associated with your show, Google will not publish changes made to any non-served feeds.
Check your feed crawl status:
Open the Google PubSubHubbub site.
In the Publisher Diagnostics enter your feed URL in the Topic URL text box, then click Get Info.
Check the last successful fetch time, and see if it is more recent than the last unsuccessful fetch. If the most recent fetch was unsuccessful, look at the last fetch error to see what went wrong. If the feed hasn't been recrawled for a while, request a recrawl.
Check that your feed is valid. If the feed has syntax errors, Google might not be able to read it. Check the validity of your feed.
Lost access to your show
Here are the possible reasons that you can't access your show any more in Podcasts Manager:
If you can neither open the show in Podcasts Manager nor see it in your show list, a show Admin has revoked your access to the show. If this is the case, you'll need to contact an Admin or Editor of the show to re-grant you access.
If you can't open the show, but get rerouted to a "Please verify your feed" page, and you see "Pending verification" next to the show name in the show list, then either:
You never finished verifying ownership of the feed, and you must do so.
The served feed has changed and you or someone else has started, but not completed, verifying ownership of the new feed. In this case, anyone trying to access the show will be prompted to complete verification of the newly served feed.
Request access to a show
If you don't have access to an existing show, ask a show Admin to grant you access. If you don't know who to ask, contact the owner's email listed in the <googleplay:owner> or <itunes:owner> tag of the feed.
Episode is missing from a show in Podcasts Manager
If you've posted an episode to your feed, but you don't see it in Podcasts Manager, remember these requirements to appear in the episodes list. If your episode fulfils these requirements and you still don't see it listed in your show on Podcasts Manager:
Change the selected time period. Remember that only episodes that were published before or within the selected time period are shown in the episode list. Choose All Time for the selected time period to zoom out to include all data for all episodes.
Make sure that the episode appears in the served feed for your show. Changes made to any other feeds, including new episodes added, will not be reflected on Google Podcasts platforms.
Refresh your browser tab. Podcasts Manager won't refresh the page with new data unless you reload the page. Switching shows in your show list won't load new data either.
Confirm that Google has seen your updates. Monitor the feed crawl status on your served feed to see if Google has seen your changes. Use the feed crawl diagnostics to confirm that Google could access the feed, and that the feed didn't have any critical errors.
Confirm that your feed is being served. Open the Google Podcasts app, load your podcast, and see whether the episode appears there.
If an episode was previously present in the show but is now no longer served, remember that Podcasts Manager retains data for only 16 months. Episodes that are no longer served will not be shown in the report 16 months after the last recorded listening data.
Episode has no data, but appears in Podcasts Manager
Remember that an episode must have data in order to appear in Podcasts Manager. If your episode appears in Podcasts Manager but doesn't show any data in the report, you're probably zoomed in to a time period without data. Change your date selection to All time to see where your listening data occurs.
Episode appears twice in your show
Podcasts Manager uniquely identifies an episode by the episode URL. If you change the URL of an episode in any way (other than changing the casing), then the new URL will be considered a new episode, with the same name as the old episode (unless you've changed the title as well).
Sharp drop-off in data for episodes or show
If you see an abrupt drop-off of data for one or more episodes:
If the served feed changes and nobody has reverified ownership in Podcasts Manager, your show will cease to show any data from the new feed. Data loss will be visible 2-3 days after the feed change if the new feed is not verified. show Admins and Editors should see a notification when this occurs; show Viewers might not see any notification.
Another possibility is that the episode is blocked by a <googleplay:block> or <itunes:block> tag. These tags can block an episode from being shown to users in Google Podcasts platforms.
Another possibility is that the audio file URL is broken; open your served RSS feed and copy the URL into a new browser window to see whether the audio file URL is correct.
Slow drop-off in data
If data for an episode simply tails off, it's likely that users have just stopped listening to your episode.
Served feed changed, but can't reverify
If the served feed has changed but you can't verify ownership of the feed for some reason, you can file an appeal.
Show isn't associated with your website
If a Google search for your podcast isn't showing your associated website, confirm that your feed and homepage link to each other. This is a very strong signal to Google that the two items are related.
Data discrepancies
You might see discrepancies between the data on Google Podcasts Manager and other hosting services. Read more about data discrepancies here.
Google chose the wrong RSS feed for your show (suggest a different feed for your show)
You can strongly suggest the preferred RSS feed for your show by linking it to your homepage, and Google usually respects this choice. If this does not work, you can file an appeal to change the served feed.
I'm told that I already verified ownership of a feed, but I didn't
If you submit a verification request for a new feed, and Google tells you that you've already verified the feed, here is probably what is happening:
At the time of your request, Google didn't know about your feed. This is why you were allowed to submit the request without any suggestions from Podcasts Manager.
Google then crawls the feed and decides that it's part of a known feed group; that is, it's similar enough to another feed that it's essentially a duplicate of that known feed.
If you are already a verified member of the Podcasts Manager show represented by that feed group, your new feed is a duplicate (non-served) feed for the show, which is already verified, Podcasts Manager tells you that you've already verified this feed.
If you think that this new feed is not a duplicate of an existing feed, you can request a change in the served feed. However, Google does not provide a way to let you request serving of two feeds that it thinks are duplicates.
Playback fails, opens a new tab, or downloads the audio file
If playback fails for an episode on any Google surface
Confirm that the episode is playable for an incognito user:
Find the served feed for your show.
In that feed, find the URL listed for the episode
Open an incognito window in your browser and enter the episode URL. If the episode won't play for an anonymous user, it won't play on Google Podcasts. Make sure that there aren't any login requirements for the episode.
It's also possible that you have a problem with mixed content, where your host page or feed is on HTTP but the episode audio file is on HTTPS (or the reverse). Check the audio file URL and confirm that it uses the same protocol (HTTP or HTTPS) as the hosting page or feed. If not, make sure that the page, feed, and all resources are hosted on the same protocol (Google strongly recommends HTTPS).
If clicking "play" opens a new browser tab, or downloads the audio file
It's likely that you have a problem with mixed content, where your host page or feed is on HTTP but the episode audio file is on HTTPS (or the reverse). Check the audio file URL and confirm that it uses the same protocol (HTTP or HTTPS) as the hosting page or feed. If not, make sure that the page, feed, and all resources are hosted on the same protocol (Google strongly recommends HTTPS).
Request a recrawl of your feed
Google crawls podcast feeds regularly and often, but if you need to publish an update to your feed quickly, here is how to tell Google to recrawl your feed:
Visit PubSubHubbub.
In Publish > Topic URL, enter your feed's URL
Click Publish
This will queue the feed.
To check the status of your requested crawl:
Visit PubSubHubbub.
In Publisher Diagnostics > Topic URL, enter your feed URL
Click Get Info.
Check the Last successful fetch time to see when Google was last able to access your RSS feed. Note that this doesn't mean that Google was able to read and understand the feed, only that it accessed the feed.
Block or remove a show
See Remove a show.
Other show actions on Google Podcasts
See how to manage your show on Google Podcasts.
Other show actions on Google Podcasts Manager
See how to manage your show on Google Podcasts Manager
Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit
true
HelpAbout podcasting on GoogleGet your podcast on GoogleMonitor your podcast listening dataManage your podcast and episodes on Google PodcastsTroubleshootingReferenceGoogle Podcasts policies
Get started with Google Podcasts Manager After you've gotten your podcast on Google, monitor and analyze your listener data on Google Podcasts Manager.