https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/9012289

URL Inspection ToolAbout the URL Inspection tool
The URL Inspection tool provides information about Google's indexed version of a specific page. Information includes AMP errors, structured data errors, and indexing issues.
Common tasks:
See the current index status of a URL: Retrieve information about Google's indexed version of your page. See why Google could or couldn't index your page.
Inspect a live URL: Test whether a page on your site is able to be indexed.
Request indexing for a URL: You can request that an URL be crawled (or recrawled) by Google.
View a rendered version of the page: See a screenshot of how Googlebot sees the page.
View loaded resources, JavaScript output, and other information: See a list of resources, page code, and more information by clicking View crawled page (indexed result) or View tested page (live test).
Troubleshoot a missing page: There can be many reasons why a page hasn't been indexed. URL Inspection can help troubleshoot some of them.
Open URL Inspection Tool
URL Inspection Tool - Google Search Console Training
See the current index status of a URL
See detailed Google Index information about a URL in your property.
To run the URL Inspection tool to see URL's current index status:
Open the URL Inspection tool.
Enter the complete URL to inspect. A few notes:
The URL must be in the current property. URLs outside the current property cannot be tested. If you own that other property, you must switch properties to test the URL.
AMP vs non-AMP URLs: You can inspect both AMP and non-AMP URLs. The tool provides information about the corresponding AMP or non-AMP version of the page.
Alternate page versions: If the page has alternate/duplicate versions, the tool also provides information about the canonical version, if the canonical version is in a property that you own.
Read how to understand the results.
Optionally run an indexability test on the live URL
Optionally request indexing for the URL.
There is a daily limit of inspection requests for each property that you own.
Understanding the results: Indexed URL
Important notes:
This is not a live test. This tool describes the most recently indexed version of a page, not the live version on the web. The information shown in the tool is used by Google to evaluate Search results. Your page may have changed or become unavailable since Google last saw it. To test the current version of the page as Google would see it, select the Live Test button on the page.
"URL is on Google" doesn't actually mean that your page is appearing in Search results. Actual appearance in Search results requires that the page and its structured data conform to quality and security guidelines. The URL Inspection tool doesn't take into account manual actions, content removals, or temporarily blocked URLs. To see if your URL is appearing, search for your URL on Google; if your URL is missing but this tool says it was indexed, here's how to find out why.
The "Last crawl" date in the Coverage section shows the date when the information shown here was retrieved (if the page was successfully crawled).
Read the presence status at the top of the tool to see whether or not the URL is eligible to appear in Google Search results: URL is on Google means that the URL is eligible to appear in Search results, but is not guaranteed to be there. URL is not on Google means that the URL can't appear in Search results.
Expand the Coverage section to see more details:
Discovery: How Google found the URL.
Crawl: If Google was able to crawl the page, when it was crawled, or any obstacles that it encountered when crawling the URL. If the status is not URL is on Google, the reason why can generally be found here.
Indexing: The canonical URL that Google chose for this page.
Enhancements: If you have structured data, if the page is an AMP or has an associated AMP, you will see details in the Enhancements section. This section also includes mobile usability testing.
To see information about the request, including the HTTP request and response, and the returned HTML, click View crawled page. If this link is disabled, it is because there was a problem fetching the page; hover over the disabled button to see the reason.
The inspection results include the following expandable sections:
Presence on Google (URL status)
The top section of the report provides a summary evaluation about whether or not the URL is eligible to appear in Google Search results (with some caveats). The following values are possible:
URL is on Google
What it means: The URL has been indexed, can appear in Google Search results, and no problems were found with any enhancements found in the page (structured data, linked AMP pages, and so on).
Important: "URL is on Google" doesn't actually mean that your page is appearing in Search results. Actual appearance in Search results requires that the page and its structured data conform to Google's quality and security guidelines. The URL Inspection tool doesn't take into account manual actions, security issues, or temporarily blocked URLs. To see if your URL is appearing, search for your URL on Google; if your URL is missing but this tool says it was indexed, find out why.
What to do next: Typically nothing, although you can explore what Google knows about your page by navigating into the details of the index coverage or enhancement sections.
URL is on Google, but has issues
What it means: The URL has been indexed and can appear in Google Search results, but there are some problems that might prevent it from appearing with the enhancements that you applied to the page. This might mean a problem with an associated AMP page, or malformed structured data for a rich result (such as a recipe or job posting) on the page. Read the "Important" section of URL is on Google above to see more caveats.
What to do next: Read the warnings or errors information in the tool and try to fix the problems described.
URL is not on Google: Indexing errors
What it means: There was at least one critical error that prevented the URL from being indexed, and it cannot appear in Google Search until those issues are fixed.
What to do next: Expand the Index coverage section to see details about the indexing attempt. See the list of index coverage errors and possible fix steps.
URL is not on Google
What it means: This URL won't appear in Google Search results, but we think that was your intention. Common reasons include that the page is password-protected or robots.txt protected, or blocked by a noindex directive.
What to do next: Read the details in the Index coverage section to learn more about the reason. A few possible reasons:
If the "User-declared canonical" and "Google-selected canonical" values are different, this means that this URL is one of a set of similar pages, and Google has chosen to index another version of the same page. There's probably no need to do anything here, though you might consider removing your explicit canonical tag, or considering why you need another page as canonical.
If there is a noindex or robots.txt blockage that you didn't expect (see the Coverage section), you must remove that blockage to allow Google to access your site.
URL is unknown to Google: See the description in the Coverage section.
For other index coverage reasons, read the list of values and possible fix instructions.
URL is an alternate version
What it means: This URL is one of a set of alternate versions of the same page. Google knows about this page and the canonical page, and might serve this page in certain conditions, but will typically prefer to serve the canonical page. For example, you might have submitted is the desktop URL for a site that is mobile-first, or that you have submitted the URL of an AMP page that has a canonical non-AMP version. The Crawled as value in the tool shows which crawler type (mobile or desktop) considers this to be an alternate version. You can see the indexed URL as the Google-selected canonical value under Index coverage.
What to do: Generally there is nothing to do, though you might check the Google-selected canonical to make sure it is an expected page.
Coverage
This section provides information about whether Google could find and index the page.
Coverage status
The section heading includes a short, descriptive reason for the status of the URL, explaining why the URL is or isn't on Google. The following values are supported:
A success, warning, failure, or excluded value listed and described here
URL is unknown to Google: This means that Google hasn't indexed the URL either because it hasn't seen the URL before, or because it has found it as a properly marked alternate page, but it can't be crawled. To fix, run a live inspection, fix any issues you might see, and submit the page for indexing. (Hint: if this is a properly marked but uncrawlable alternate page, if you inspect the canonical page you will see this page listed, with a crawl error.)
Sitemaps
Any known sitemaps that point to this URL. Note: This includes only sitemaps submitted using the Sitemaps report or listed in the robots.txt for this site. Sitemaps discovered through other means won't be listed. For larger or new sites, it is a good practice to provide a sitemap to help Google know which pages to crawl. See known issues.
Referring page
A page that Google possibly used to discover this URL. The referring page might directly link to this URL, or it might be a grandparent or great-grandparent of a page that links to this URL. If this value is absent it doesn't mean that no referring page exists, just that this information might not be available to the URL Inspection tool at this time. If you see "URL might be known from other sources that are currently not reported", it means that Google found this URL through some means other than a sitemap or referring page, but the referring information currently isn't available to this tool.
Last crawl
The last time this page was crawled by Google, in your local time. All information shown in this tool is derived from this last crawled version.
Crawled as
The user agent type used for the crawl (desktop or mobile).
Crawl allowed?
Indicates whether your site allowed Google to crawl (visit) the page or blocked it with a robots.txt rule. If you did not intend to block Google, you should remove blocking rule from robots.txt. Read how to fix a blocked page. Note that this value is not the same as allowing indexing, which is given by the "Indexing allowed?" value.
Page fetch
Whether or not Google could actually get the page from your server. If crawling is not allowed, this field will show a failure. If crawling is allowed, page fetch might still fail for various reasons. See explanations of fetch failures. "Crawl allowed?" indicates whether you want the page to be reachable; "Page fetch" indicates whether, if allowed, Google could actually reach the page.
Indexing allowed?
Whether or not your page explicitly disallowed indexing. If indexing is disallowed, the reason is explained, and the page won't appear in Google Search results. IMPORTANT If your page is blocked by robots.txt (see Crawl allowed?), then Indexing allowed? will always be "Yes" because Google can't see and respect any noindex directives. Because of this, your page might appear in Search results.
User-declared canonical
If your page explicitly declares a canonical URL, it will be shown here. If your page is not an alternate page, the value None is fine here. If your page is one of a set of alternate pages, we recommend explicitly declaring the canonical URL. You can declare a canonical URL in several ways: a <link rel="canonical"> tag, an HTTP header, a sitemap, or a few other methods. There is no guarantee that Google will choose your preferred canonical, but we will take this into consideration. For AMP pages, the canonical should be the non-AMP version (unless it is a self-canonical AMP).
Google-selected canonical
The page that Google selected as the canonical (authoritative) URL, when it found similar or duplicate pages on your site. Google might select the user-declared canonical, but sometimes Google might choose another URL that it considers a better canonical example. If the page has no alternate versions, the Google-selected canonical is the inspected URL. If you find an unexpected page here, consider explicitly declaring a canonical version.
The canonical URL is not always the one shown in Search results: for example, if a page has both a desktop canonical and a mobile version, Google will probably show the URL appropriate for your current device.
Note that this value can be a few hours behind the value in our index.
If the inspected page is not the canonical URL, you can inspect the Google-selected canonical URL by selecting Inspect (but only if the URL is in a property that you manage).
Enhancements (Mobile usability, AMP, and more)
This section describes any Search enhancements detected by Google on your URL the last time it was indexed. If the URL could not be indexed, or no enhancements were detected, this section will be empty.
This tool does not yet show all possible enhancements. Here are the enhancements supported by this tool:
Mobile Usability
Discover whether your page is easy to use on a mobile device. Not all pages are tested for mobile usability.
The following verdicts are possible:
Page is not mobile friendly: The page won't work well on a mobile device because of a few issues. See descriptions of the possible errors.
Page is mobile friendly: The page should probably work well on a mobile device. More details.
No data available: For some reason we couldn't retrieve the page or test its mobile-friendliness. Please wait a bit and try again.
Click the verdict row to get more details about mobile usability for this URL.
AMP
If the page has a linked AMP version, you can see information about it by selecting the row in the tool. Use this information to help find and troubleshoot AMP-specific indexing and other issues.
Details shown here apply to the AMP version referenced by the current page; they do not apply to the current page.
In addition to standard AMP errors, you might see these Google-specific AMP errors.
To see other pages on your site affected by a specific issue, select the issue description row, then select Open Report.
An URL page inspected with URL Inspection tool as an AMP can have the following possible statuses:
AMP page is valid / Web Story is valid: The AMP is valid and indexed.
AMP page is invalid / Web Story is invalid: The AMP has an error that will prevent it from being indexed.
AMP page isn't indexed / Web Story isn't indexed (indexed version) or AMP page cannot be indexed / Web Story cannot be indexed (live inspection): The page is blocked from indexing, typically because of a robots.txt rule or a noindex directive.
AMP page is valid with warnings / Web Story is valid with warnings: AMP can be indexed, but there are some issues that might prevent it from getting full features, or it uses tags or attributes that are deprecated, and might become invalid in the future.
Not an AMP page: The page inspected was not an AMP page.
Various rich result types
You can see information about any rich result types (structured data) found on the page. Information includes the number of valid items found on the URL, descriptions of each item, and details about any warnings or errors found. The following rich result types are supported:
Breadcrumb
Dataset
Event
FAQ
Fact check
Guided recipe
How-to
Image License
Job posting
Logo
Product
Q&A page
Recipe
Review snippet
Sitelinks searchbox
Special Announcement
Video
My rich result isn't here! Not all rich result types are supported by the tool yet. Unsupported types might be present and valid on the page, and can appear in Search results, but won't appear in the tool.
Additional response data
Additional fetch information is only available in tests with a status of URL is on Google or URL is on Google, but has issues.
To see additional response data such as the raw HTML returned, the HTTP headers, JavaScript console output, and any page resources loaded, click View crawled page. A screenshot of the rendered page is available only in a live test.
Live URL test
You can test a live URL in your property to see whether it is capable of being indexed by Google. This will run a test against the live page for information similar to the indexed URL. It is useful when you want to test changes in the page against the currently indexed version of the page.
To test a live URL for potential indexing errors:
Inspect the indexed URL. Note: it's fine if the page hasn't been indexed yet, or has failed indexing, but it must be accessible from the internet without any login information.
Click Test live URL on the index results page.
Read understanding the live test results to understand what you're looking at.
You can toggle between the live test results and the indexed results by selecting Google Index or Live Test on the page.
To rerun a live test, select the
(reload) button on the page.
To see details about the page, including a screenshot and HTTP response headers, select View crawled page.
There is a per-property daily limit of live inspections.
Understanding the results: Live test
Important notes:
This is a live test. This tool fetches and examines the URL in real time. The information shown in the live test can differ from the indexed URL for reasons described below.
The live test does not check for the presence of the URL in any sitemaps or any referring pages.
The Indexable status in the live URL can be different from the Index coverage status on the indexed URL for these reasons:
You have changed or fixed something in the live URL, such as removing (or adding) a noindex tag or a robots.txt block, and the changes were not yet indexed. Examine the difference in the Indexed and Live tests, or check the page version history on your site to discover the differences between the indexed version and the live version.
The live test does not support all the index states in the indexed version. Some states in the indexed version aren't tested or don't make sense in a live test, and will be reported differently in the live test. See the indexable section details to learn the unsupported states.
Does a valid result mean that my page will be indexed?
No. This test only confirms that Googlebot can access your page for indexing. Even if you get a valid or warning verdict in the live test, your page must still fulfill other conditions in order to be indexed. For instance:
The page cannot be subject to any manual actions or legal issues.
The page cannot be a duplicate of another indexed page; it must either be unique, or selected as the canonical version of a set of similar pages.
The page quality must be high enough to warrant indexing.
The inspection results include the following expandable sections:
URL status (live test)
The top section of the report gives a general evaluation of whether or not the live URL can be indexed. A positive result is not a guarantee that it will appear in Search results, but it means that the URL can be crawled and parsed. The URL Inspection tool doesn't take into account manual actions, content removals, quality and security issues, or temporarily blocked URLs.
Important: The live test does not cover all possible indexing conditions. Issues marked "no" in this table are not checked in the live test, and can occur when the page is indexed, no matter what the live URL status is.
The following values are possible:
URL is available to Google
What it means: The URL isn't blocked and doesn't have any detectable errors to prevent full indexing. If Google indexes the URL it can appear in Google Search results, provided that it conforms to quality and security guidelines, and is not subject to manual actions, content removals, or temporarily blocked URLs. See which issues are not checked.
What to do next: If the page is different from the indexed version, you can request indexing by selecting the button on the page. Alternatively you could submit a sitemap, or wait for it to be crawled naturally.
URL is available to Google, but has issues
What it means: The URL can be indexed by Google, but there are some problems that might prevent it from appearing with the enhancements that you tried to implement. This might mean a problem with an associated AMP page, or malformed structured data for a rich result (such as a recipe or job posting) on the page. See which issues are not checked.
What to do next: Read the warnings or errors information in the tool and try to fix the problems described.
URL is not available to Google
What it means: This URL can't appear in Google Search results due to a critical issue.
What to do next: Read the details in the Availability section to learn more about the reason.
URL is an alternate version
What it means: The URL is not considered the canonical version of this page, so it is not indexed, but this is not an error.
What to do next: Probably nothing. Google has a canonical URL for this page that should be indexed. The current index information will show the canonical URL in Coverage > Google-selected canonical.
Availability (live test)
This section of the tool describes whether the page can be indexed by Google. However, a positive result is no guarantee that it will appear in Search results.
The page and its structured data must conform to Google's quality and security guidelines. The live URL inspection also doesn't take into account manual actions, security issues, content removals, or temporarily blocked URLs.
Availability status
The section heading includes a short, descriptive reason for the status of the URL, explaining why the URL is or isn't on Google. This will be "URL can be indexed" if the URL is able to be indexed, or a warning or failure value similar to (but not exactly the same as) those listed and described here. See details.
Time
The time of the live test.
Crawled as
The user agent type used for the live test.
Crawl allowed?
Indicates whether your site will allow Google to crawl (visit) the page, or block it with a robots.txt rule. If you don't want to block Google, you should remove the robots.txt block. Note that this is not the same as allowing indexing, which is given by the "Indexing allowed?" value. Read how to fix a blocked page.
Page fetch
Whether or not Google could actually get the page from your server. If crawling is not allowed, this field will show a failure. If crawling is allowed, page fetch might still fail for various reasons. See explanations of fetch failures. "Crawl allowed?" indicates whether you want the page to be reachable; "Page fetch" indicates whether, if allowed, Google could actually reach the page.
Indexing allowed?
Whether or not your page explicitly disallows indexing. If indexing is disallowed, the reason is explained, and the page won't appear in Google Search results. IMPORTANT If your page is blocked by robots.txt (see "Crawl allowed"), then "Indexing allowed" will always be "Yes" because Google can't see and respect any noindex directives. Because of this, your page might appear in Search results.
User-declared canonical
If your page explicitly declares a canonical URL, it will be shown here. If your page is not a duplicate, None is fine here. If your page is one of a set of similar or duplicate pages, we recommend explicitly declaring the canonical URL. You can declare a canonical URL in several ways: a <link rel="canonical"> tag, an HTTP header, a sitemap, or a few other methods. There is no guarantee that Google will choose this URL, but we will take this into consideration. For AMP pages, the canonical should be the non-AMP version (unless it is a self-canonical AMP).
Which index coverage issues are tested in the live test
The live test can't detect all page conditions, or predict indexing success with 100% confidence. This is because some types of issues are not, or cannot be tested in real time, such as canonical selection or whether a URL was submitted in a sitemap. If a condition is not checked, the live test result might be URL is available to Google, when in fact indexing will fail due to the condition not tested in the live test.
Here are a list of indexing issues from the Index Coverage report, and whether they can be tested in the live test:
Index status
Tested in live test?
Notes
Excluded by ‘noindex’ tag
Yes
Results shown in the Indexing allowed? field.
Blocked by page removal tool
No
You can check this in the Temporary Removals page.
Blocked due to unauthorized request (401)
Yes
Results shown in Coverage status and the Page fetch field.
Crawled - currently not indexed
No
Discovered - currently not indexed
No
Alternate page with proper canonical tag
No
Information about Google's canonical choice is only determined at indexing time.
Duplicate without user-selected canonical
No
Information about Google's canonical choice is only determined at indexing time.
Duplicate, Google chose different canonical than user
No
Information about Google's canonical choice is only determined at indexing time.
Not found (404)
Yes
Results shown in Coverage status and the Page fetch field.
Page with redirect
Yes
Results shown in Page fetch field.
Soft 404
No
Click View tested page to see how Google renders the page for indexing. Very low content pages can be classified as soft 404s during indexing. Learn more, and how to fix.
Duplicate, submitted URL not selected as canonical
No
Information about Google's canonical choice is only determined at indexing time. Additionally, the live test does not determine whether a URL was submitted using a sitemap.
Blocked due to access forbidden (403)
Yes
Results shown in the Page fetch field.
Blocked due to other 4xx issue
Yes
Results shown in Coverage status and the Page fetch field.
Page indexed without content
No
Indexed, though blocked by robots.txt
Yes
Results shown in Coverage status and several other fields in that section.
Submitted URL seems to be a Soft 404
No‡
Click View tested page to see how Google renders the page for indexing. Very low content pages can be classified as soft 404s during indexing. Learn more, and how to fix.
Submitted URL returns unauthorized request (401)
Yes‡
Results shown in Coverage status and the Page fetch field.
Submitted URL not found (404)
Yes‡
Results shown in Coverage status and the Page fetch field.
Submitted URL returned 403
Yes‡
Results shown in the Page fetch field.
Submitted URL blocked due to other 4xx issue
Yes‡
Results shown in Coverage status and the Page fetch field.
Submitted URL marked ‘noindex’
Yes‡
Results shown in the Indexing allowed? field.
Submitted URL blocked by robots.txt
Yes‡
Results shown in Coverage status and several other fields in that section.
Redirect error
Yes
Results shown in Page fetch field.
Server error (5xx)
Yes, but...
Your page might not have server errors during the live test, but a server error can occur during actual indexing. Success in the live test is not a guarantee of success later.
‡The live test does not verify whether a URL was submitted in a sitemap. Therefore, indexing issues will be evaluated without any consideration about whether or not they were submitted.
Enhancements (Mobile usability, AMP, and more) (live test)
This is similar to the enhancements section in the indexed version of the URL.
Additional response data (live test)
Additional fetch information is only available in the live test with a status of URL is available to Google.
To see additional response data such as a screenshot of the rendered page, the raw HTML returned, the HTTP headers, JavaScript console output, and any page resources loaded, click View tested page.
View the rendered page
You can view a screenshot of the rendered page as Googlebot sees it. This is useful for confirming that all elements of the page are present and appear as you intend. Differences might be the result of resources that are blocked to Googlebot.
A screenshot is available only for the live URL test with a successful test result. Screenshots are not available for the indexed URL, or for non-successful fetches of the live test. The page must be reachable to generate a screenshot. If your page is behind a firewall, you can expose it to the URL Inspection tool using a tunnel.
To view the rendered page:
Inspect the homepage of your site.
Click Test live URL on the index results page.
Click View tested page on the page verdict card to open additional information panels. If this option is not available it is typically because the page cannot be reached for the live test.
Click the Screenshot tab.
Request (re)indexing
You can request that an inspected URL be indexed by Google. Indexing can take up to a week or two; you can check the progress using this tool.
Some caveats when requesting indexing:
Indexing typically takes only a day or so, but can take much longer in some cases.
Submitting a request does not guarantee that the page will appear in the Google Index.
There is a daily limit to how many index requests you can submit. If you want many pages indexed, try submitting a sitemap to Google.
To request indexing for a URL:
Inspect the page URL.
Click Request indexing on the inspection result page for the URL. If the page passes a quick check to test for immediate indexing errors, it will be submitted to the indexing queue. You cannot request indexing if the page is considered to be non-indexable in the live test.
To request indexing of many new or updated pages, your best choice is to submit a sitemap, with the updated pages marked by <lastmod>.
Troubleshoot a missing page
If you think your page hasn't been indexed, here's how to verify and troubleshoot the issue.
Check the index status of the page. Inspect the URL, either by entering the URL in the inspection URL textbox, or by clicking the inspect button shown next to a URL in one of the other Search Console reports (you might need to hover over a URL to see this button).
The initial test results show you Google's information about the URL in the Google index. These Google index results are used to generate search results. Note: This initial page is not a live test of the URL. Live testing is covered later.
If the URL status starts with "URL is on Google", then the page should be available in Google Search. You can verify this by searching for the URL in Google. If the page isn't in search results:
Check the Manual Actions report and Security Issues report for issues affecting that page. Issues on either report can prevent your page from appearing in search results.
Check to see if someone has temporarily blocked the page.
If none of the previous issues affect the page, continue debugging the issue as described here.
If the URL status is URL is not available to Google, then expand the Availability section.
The Availability section header should include a label describing in brief why the URL could not be indexed. See the list of values and possible fix instructions. If the label is URL is unknown to Google, it means that Google hasn't seen that URL before, so you should request that the page be indexed. Indexing typically takes a few days.
If Crawl allowed? is "No," that means Google can't crawl the page because of a robots.txt rule, which prevents Google from crawling the page. Read how to test and fix this issue.
If Indexing allowed? is "No", that means your site is returning a "noindex" tag or header that prevents Google from indexing the page, which enables it to appear in Google Search results. You'll have to remove this tag or header from the page before Google will index it.
If you've changed the page since the crawl time listed, you can test your current version of the page by clicking Test live URL. If the status shown at the top of the page valid, then the page can probably be indexed (note that not all indexing issues can be detected by the live test).
Known issues
In a few cases, we don't report the sitemap for a page that was submitted in a sitemap. We are working to fix this.
Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit
true
All reports and toolsReports at a glanceSearch console overview pageAMP Tools and ReportsChange of Address ToolIndex Coverage reportLinks reportManual Actions reportMobile Usability Tools and ReportsPage Experience reportPerformance ReportsRemovals ToolRich Results Tools and ReportsSecurity Issues reportManage your sitemaps using the Sitemaps reportCore Web Vitals reportURL Inspection ToolBlock crawling of parameterized duplicate contentLegacy or external reports and toolsManaging properties and users on Search Console
New to Search Console? Never used Search Console before? Start here, whether you're a complete beginner, an SEO expert, or a website developer.